The Tathāgata was residing at the Aggalāva stupa in the city of *Ālavi*. During this time male lay devotees used to visit the monastery to listen to Dhamma preaching. Soon after the preaching sessions are over, Thera bhikkhus return to their respective dwellings. Young monks stayed over the preaching hall and slept with the lay devotees in the same sleeping area. They slept without mindfulness and attentiveness. During the sleep, they were naked and talked in their sleep. The lay devotees spoke started to criticised, *“How could these bhikkhus slept without mindfulness and attentiveness? How could they sleep naked, and talk in their sleep?”* When the matter was informed to the Buddha, he laid down the paṭhama sahaseyya training rule prohibiting monks from sleeping in the same dwelling with anupasampannas.

>Yo pana bhikkhu anupasampannena uttariṃ dirattatirattaṃ sahaseyyaṃ kappeyya, pācittiyaṃ.

If any bhikkhu should make use of a sleeping place for more than two nights or three nights together with one who has not been fully admitted into the bhikkhu-community, this is a case involving expiation.

There are four elements that must be known in order to understand this training rule. These are:
1. Natures of **sabbacchanna** and **yebhuyyacchanna**
2. Natures of sabbaparicchanna and yebhuyyaparicchanna
3. Natures of **ekupacāra** and **nanupacāra**
4. Method of calculating nights

##### 5 kinds of covered with:
1. iṭṭhakā: tile
2. sīla: stone
3. sudhā: plaster, lime.
4. tiṇa: grass
5. paṇṇa: leaves.
6. extras:
	1. padara: board of wood.
	2. coḷa: cloth

#### Sabbacchanna and yebhuyycchanna 
- If the space used for sleeping **is entirely covered by a roof**, it is called a sabbacchanna place. Even if some areas are open, 
- if it is covered for the **most part,** it is identified as a **yebhuyyacchanna** place. Both these places are **grounds that a pācittiya offence** could occur. 
- If the space is only covered in **half**, sleeping together in such space will result in a **dukkaṭa** offence.

#### Sabbaparicchanna and yebhuyyaparicchanna 
- The status of paricchanna is determined by how **a space is bounded in its perimeter**. If the **entire perimeter is walled**, it’s referred to as **sabbaparicchanna** while if it’s mostly walled it’s known as yebhuyyena paricchanna. 
- These two grounds will also suffice for a pācittiya offence to occur. A residence that is only walled in half will be eligible for the occurrence of a dukkaṭa offence.

It is not necessary for the walls to be connected to the roof. A wall that is at least the height of one and a half cubits of a majjhima purisa is sufficient. 
A room that is surrounded by a wall that is lower in height than that is an aparicchinna residence. Sleeping together within such residences will not result in an offense
Even if the roof and walls are made of cloth, if the aforementioned characteristics are present, the same offenses will occur as if the walls were built with bricks.

upaḍḍhacchanna: half-roofed.
1 1/2 majjhima cubit.  = **2 1/4 pakatta purisa cubit.**

#### Ekūpacāra and nanūpacāra
when you go into a house with 1 door, and go to any door without going out is called Ekūpacāra.
`for parivāsa, ukkheppa cannot stay under the same roof with pakāta bhikkhu, the consideration here is based on rain felt.`

a small house built on top of a building,  

lying down means: feet are on the ground or hip is on the ground.
count night by both of the people lying down before dawn.

**tikapacittiya, dukadukkaṭa**
monk   -anusampanna-> upasampanna = Dkṭ
monk   -doubt-> upasampanna = Dkṭ
monk   -usampanna-> upasampanna = anāpatti

monk   -anusampanna-> anupasampanna = P
monk   -doubt-> anupasampanna = P
monk   -usampanna-> anupasampanna = P



