- where, who and how?:: a group of bhikkhus who were very friendly with each other entered the vassāna close to the banks of the Vaggumudā river. at the Kutagara hall in the forests of the city of Vesāli during famine time.
<!--SR:!2024-01-05,1,230-->
- sotapanna exists in that group so buddha never use word moggapurisa. although sotapanna never talk about their attainment, others declare his attainment.
- description:
	- Falsely claiming to have sublime attainments is an act that results in pārājika. 
	- Even if a bhikkhu does possess such sublime attainments, they must not be publicly mentioned. 
	- If a bhikkhu, states the sublime attainments he possesses to one who is anupasampannana such act will result in a dukkaṭa offense.
- cases:
	- 1. If a bhikkhu **directly** states the sublime attainments he possesses to an anupasampanna, a **pācittiya** offense will be committed.
	- 2. If a bhikkhu **indirectly** states the sublime attainments he possesses to one that is not fully admitted, a **dukkaṭa** offense will be committed.
- Important points
	1. Under this training rule the bhikkhuni must also be considered a upasampanna. Therefore, **it is fine for a monk to express his real sublime attainments to a bhikkhunī.** 
	2. If acquired sublime states are conveyed to a upasampanna, an offense will not occur.
	3. When being pestered and inquired repeatedly “Venerable Sir, what have you attained from practising the holy life?”, during the time of parinibbāna, or the time of passing or any other time, it is worthwhile to mention the attained sublime states to a upasampanna.
	4. It is worthy of mentioning the qualities related to learnedness and discipline even to an anupasampanna.
	5. Under instances of non-offenses; the sentences related to ummattaka, khittacitta and vedanatta were not declared because insanity and a bewildered state of mind cannot occur amongst ariya beings. If puthujjana jhānalabhīs happen to develop such mind-sets, their jhāna will immediately vanish.
- Perception and Volition
	- The commentary indicates that this training rule is always broken in an acittaka manner. This is because those who have attained supramundane statuses (ariya puggala) will not deliberately go against the training rule. 
	- The moment a puthujjana monk, who possesses jhānas, intentionally attempts to break the training rule, his jhāna will vanish instantly. 
	- In any case, if a puthujjana monk, who possesses jhāna, deliberately breaks this training rule, by the time of breaching, he has already lost his jhāna. 
	- Therefore, this offense is always **acittaka**. The nature of being acittaka is **determined by knowing or not knowing the charter of this training rule**. As it is an acittaka offense, it is also categorised as nosaññāvimokkha.
- Factors ↓ 
	- 1. Being sublime statuses that are actually possessed
1. Informing an anupasampanna
2. The anupasampanna knowing instantaneously what is being said
3. Expressing the idea directly
    - MC quest
- 